Hello and welcome to the chorus.
And today we'll be discussing using wildcards in as well.
NPG admin or opposed rescue specifically so wildcards are used you know to specify what exactly you
want to look for in the column in the tables in the data.
Most commonly they are used to specify what words or sentences or letters you want to find in the columns
or like the data that consist of that or asked for example.
So let's jump straight into practice so I don't waste your time with theory and you learn more by actually
doing so as you can see FPGA and for opened up I have consumer complaints database loaded I have that
table ready to go consumer complains that consist of eight and columns as always.
Let's quickly select to create a new query.
And in this query what we want to do is we want to select as always and what you want to do is we want
to select product names that consists of credit so it can be credit card credit report credit error
car credit whatever it is.
It has to consist of a word credit.
So let's go ahead and select all products from consumer complaints and then what we did before.
If you remember with the state names we just throw that like this.
But if we're on the square right now what we'll get is no results because there is no products that
consist just of the word credit written in all lower case letters.
So what we want to do when we use wild cards is to say product name like and then we put our rules.
So we say that if the product name doesn't have to be specifically credit but it has to consist of the
word credit so it has to satisfy this rule and in order to put that into the gray.
This is how we write it.
So we put our word that we're interested in.
And then we surrounded with two percent sign.
So now run it again we get nothing.
And this is due to the fact that in this particular table as well as many others there is a writing
syntax.
So when you input data you would put the first name from capital letters so credit will be written more
like this.
So if we on this with capital C we'll get way more results because now it displays that you can see
credit card credit reports.
Mostly these to credit reports and credit cards values are represented to us but this is a big concern
in the sense that what if we don't know if the see has to be capital or maybe t has to be capital or
maybe somebody made a mistake and made our capital a set of C.
So in order to solve this problem we have upper and lower statements.
How does it work.
Let me explain the real quick.
Again we say here select product name from consumer complaints and then we say that where.
And then we can put lower then we put product name or the column that we want to search for.
We want the column that we want to follow the rules in brackets and then we say like and if we put lower
here what do we have to do is we have to put this condition this rule all in lower leapers.
So as you can see now displaced us again credit card credit reporting and even though these begin with
capital C it still displays it us because we have the lower condition.
So it works the opposite way if we put upper and then here we put up her letters as well.
It will display to us the same results.
So basically here this statement becomes case sensitive and this is quite important because a lot of
the times working with database especially the initial work you do of it just understand like what general
data you have in there or what this column consists of.
You want to be case insensitive so you don't miss anything important.
All right.
So I think that was a pretty good example of how to use the light conditions and I'll go ahead and practice
some more just so you get the hang of it because it is a very commonly used statements in a school.
Next example is that we need to select all the companies that had the issues that consisted of the word
late.
So in order to do that what we do is we write the select statement that we go select company then we
say from our table which is consumer complaints as always and then we have to say that where issue like
so again if we're on this we'll get nothing but if we run I have slightly modified Querrey has the lower
statement in it.
Let's see what we get now.
As you can see now we get much much more.
So let's quickly display here issue so that you understand what's happening behind the screen so to
say and as you can see the problem again was that the late had the Capitol out.
So if we again remove the lower statement and run it like this you can see that.
And just remove the whole condition.
We can see that issues will have capital.
Al in light in all the examples and this is again this is the way this table was filled but some tables
maybe that company has a policy where they write all the data in lower letters so to avoid this confusion.
But as you can see the issues here and you see Al will be all this capital.
So the first line of that will be always Capitol Hill including the late.
So now let's move on to our next example.
In this example we will work with numbers so let's say we want to select all the companies and all these
products that these companies produce where the zip code of the company starts with for the way we do
it is we say select company then we say select product name then we say from then we'll say consumer
complaints and then we identify that where the zip code like and here's an interesting fact if you could
for and run it what we'll get is sorry that was my about.
So if we put four and run it we will get nothing because the zip codes there knows it because the jobs
are there for now.
If you just run out and display all the zip codes you will understand that they consist of generally
five numbers.
So what we can do is we can use this syntax and this will return to us quite a lot of results.
And as you can see if we just put the zip code here to display to you what's happening you will see
that all of these zip codes start of four and all of them consist of five numbers together.
So what that underscore does it states for one symbol.
So here we say that the zip code consist of one two three four five five numbers.
The first one has to be four.
And the second third fourth and fifth can be anything.
So just to show you how it works and say we want to display old zip codes were four is in the middle
and this is the way we do it.
So now as you can see four will be in the middle.
But again we're only displaying the zip codes that have four in the middle of it and there's five numbers
in the zip code because there are some zip because it consists of four numbers or even three numbers.
You do not display the whole array of data here.
Now you can see why.
Underscores are used because if we just put the percent in this case what we will get is way way way
more data because it will display twice.
It will display to us all the results were for is on the first space on the fourth space on the second
space third and fifth the underscores are used to specify which exact location you have to have the
specific number or letter in.
So our next example is to show all the zip codes that do not have number four or rather that did not
start with.
Number four we can display those with the zip code has to be not like.
And then we put what we want to hear.
In our case for now if we quickly run this what we'll get as company's products this companies produce
and they'll do zip codes and you will see that none of the zip codes start with number four.
So again it's taking it a bit to run because I'm working on this machine.
But as you can see app it did work out.
And if you scan for this you will never find the zip code starting before and again as you can see here
is an example of zip code with only four numbers as well as here.
OK so now let's say you want to display older results where the zip code does not have number four in
it anywhere.
This is done pretty easily because we always have to do is to add another percent sign on the right
of four and this will say that it cannot be in any position first second third fourth or fifth.
So this is basically all the combinations of wildcards you will use.
So again we have like not like that percentage sign underscore wildcards are very useful.
Don't forget the upper and lower conditions because they can save you a lot of time and a lot of mistakes.
Apart from that this was a very fun lecture at least for me and I hope you enjoyed it too.
And I will see you in the next one.